# Traffic Light Detection And Color Recognition
Traffic Light Detection using Tensorflow Object Detection API and Microsoft COCO Dataset

## Introduction
Humans can easily detect and identify objects present in an image. The human visual system is fast and accurate and can perform complex tasks like identifying multiple objects and detect obstacles with little conscious thought. With the availability of large amounts of data, faster GPUs, and better algorithms, we can now easily train computers to detect and classify multiple objects within an image with high accuracy.
With the advancements in technology, there has been a rapid increase in the development of autonomous vehicles or smart cars. Accurate detection and recognition of traffic lights is a crucial part in the development of such cars. The concept involves enabling autonomous vehicles to automatically detect traffic lights using the least amount of human interaction. Automating the process of traffic light detection in cars would also help to reduce accidents.
The experiment was implemented using transfer learning of the Microsoft's Common Objects in Context (COCO) pre-trained models and Tensorflow's Object Detection API.TensorFlow’s Object Detection API is a powerful tool that makes it easy to construct, train, and deploy object detection models. In most of the cases, training an entire convolutional network from scratch is time consuming and requires large datasets. This problem can be solved by using the advantage of transfer learning with a pre-trained model using the TensorFlow API.
